new pages and nav menu (#44)
fixie-ai/ultradox: docs/src/content/docs/migration/firstspeaker.mdx

---
title: "Migrating to firstSpeaker (from initiator)"
description: How to migrate to firstSpeaker as part of the deprecation of initiator.
sidebar:
  hidden: true
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

`initiator` is being removed as an option when [creating a call](/api/calls/#create-call).

It has been replaced with `firstSpeaker`.

## Why Change?
`initiator` was confusing as it was used to indicate who was responsible for starting the call (`INITIATOR_USER` or `INITIATOR_AGENT`). It was set to agent for any outgoing calls or left as the default (user) for in-bound calls.

> `firstSpeaker` is more clear an indicates who speaks first during the call. For in-bound calls, the default (`FIRST_SPEAKER_AGENT`) will have the agent answer the call. For outgoing calls, setting it to `FIRST_SPEAKER_USER` indicates the expecation that most people answer a phone call with "Hello?".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`firstSpeaker` more clearly indicates who speaks first during the call. For inbound calls, the default (`FIRST_SPEAKER_AGENT`) will have the agent answer the call. For outgoing calls, setting it to `FIRST_SPEAKER_USER` indicates the expectation that most people answer a phone call with "Hello?".
```

## How to Migrate

> * Stop using `initiator` when creating any new calls with Ultravox.
> * For in-bound calls, you don't need to do anything else unless you expect the user to speak first.
> * For out-bound calls, set `firstSpeaker` to `FIRST_SPEAKER_USER`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you previously set `initiator` to `INITIATOR_AGENT`, set `firstSpeaker` to `FIRST_SPEAKER_USER` instead to maintain the same behavior.
* If you previously set `initiator` to `INITIATOR_USER`, set `firstSpeaker` to `FIRST_SPEAKER_AGENT` instead to maintain the same behavior.
* If you weren't setting `initiator`, you can continue not setting `firstSpeaker`.
```

> Note: If you use `FIRST_SPEAKER_AGENT` for out-bound calls, the first part of the agent's utterance might be clipped due to delays in the phone network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If you use `FIRST_SPEAKER_AGENT` for outbound calls, the first part of the agent's utterance might be clipped due to delays in the phone network.
```
